Add `Mapper's Choice Awards / A Year In Mapping 2023` news post (#10869)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2024/2024-02-01-mappers-choice-awards-2023.md

---
layout: post
title: Mapper's Choice Awards / A Year In Mapping 2023

> date: 2023-02-01 00:00:00 +0000

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2024-02-01 00:00:00 +0000
```

Author: 2nd time this year...

For those unfamiliar with this event, the Mapper's Choice Awards (or *MCA* for short) is a community-hosted event where mappers nominate and vote on maps and mappers for various categories in order to celebrate mapping excellence in all shapes and forms.

[Just like last year](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2023-03-03-mappers-choice-awards), there are many awards for the winners and runner-ups of every category! If you'd like to learn more, keep reading here and check out the [Corsace website](https://corsace.io/), where you can find the results of previous iterations of MCA and learn more about these events!

In addition, A Year In Mapping is what one would call the *Spotify Wrapped* for the osu! mapping and modding community, showcasing a variety of intriguing statistics gathered from across last year's maps, such as total number of guest difficulties, most mapsets ranked, most favourites and more. If this sort of thing interests you, read on!

## Mapper's Choice Awards 2023

If you ranked any beatmap, guest difficulty, or storyboard in 2023, you're eligible to help the mapping community pick the most standout maps of the year!

> Just like the previous editions of MCA, there are three stages: nomination, voting, and results. See below to know when the deadlines for nomination and voting are, and when to expect the final results!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just like the previous editions of MCA, there are three stages: nomination, voting, and results. [See below](#schedule) to know when the deadlines for nomination and voting are, and when to expect the final results!
```

- **Nomination:** Eligible users can submit any beatmaps, storyboards, or users from 2023 which they feel are deserving of recognition in their respective categories.
- **Voting:** Eligible users can vote on the pool of submitted nominations.

> - **Results:** Will be based off of the results of voting and feature a livestream announcing each podium of every category.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Results:** These will be based on the voting tallies and feature a livestream announcing the podium of each category.
```

Check out the [Mapper's Choice Awards 2023 website](https://mca.corsace.io/2023/) to get started if you're eligible!

### Schedule

| Event | Timestamp (UTC) |
| --: | :-- |
| Nomination phase | 2024-02-01 – 2024-02-05 00:00 |
| Voting phase | 2024-02-08 – 2024-02-13 00:00 |
| Results stream (on the [Corsace Twitch channel](https://www.twitch.tv/corsace)) | 2024-02-18 |
| Results (on the [Corsace website](https://mca.corsace.io/2023/)) | 2024-02-19 |

### Rewards

MCA 2023 is featuring a handsome selection of rewards for the winners of each category:

- **osu!supporter**
  - Grand Award winners: 4 months
  - Category winners: 2 months per category
- **Badges**
  - Winners of the Grand categories will be awarded special badges each.
  - The winner of each regular category will be awarded a more generic badge.

## A Year In Mapping 2023

A ton of data and stats around the mapping trends of 2023 are now available for you to see in A Year In Mapping (*AYIM*) 2023!

> Per usual, A Year in Mapping features all the coolest statistics of the year all in [one place](https://ayim.corsace.io/2023/). Want to know who ranked the hardest or easiest map this year? Who ranked the most difficulties? Look no further than AYIM!

Reviewer: a big link on one line would be better

---

> Now that you're all caught up on the schedule and the events, it's time to get to the important part: nominating and voting! Head on over to the [website](https://mca.corsace.io/2023/) to get started!

Reviewer: here too
